# Cab-Fare-Prediction-using-Regression-Models
Uber and Lyft are the largest ride-hailing services which connects the local drivers with the customers. We see Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence in practically every industry nowadays, therefore we aim to employ the same to forecast the cab journey pricing. In this project, we experimented on a real-world dataset to see how machine learning algorithms may be used to uncover different patterns in data. We mostly examined the price prediction of various Uber and Lyft cabs and how weather, temperature, wind, and other elements influence its cost. This problem falls into the regression supervised learning category. Linear Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest Regressor, XGBoost, Gradient Boosting Regressor , CatBoostRegressor, BayesianRidge Regressor, ElasticNet Regressor , SGDRegressor and KNearestNeighborsRegressor were among the machine learning techniques employed. Finally, we select the one that performs the best in terms of cab ride pricing prediction. To achieve the best results, we chose an approach that boosts accuracy while decreasing overfitting. Out of all the algorithms we tested, we discovered that XGBoost had the best accuracy for price prediction. We have developed a program that predicts the cost of a cab ride based on the information provided by the user.
# Dataset Description
I'm utilizing Kaggle's Uber and Lyft Dataset Boston, MA for my research. We are evaluating 299262 training values and 112225 testing values.
Dataset link : https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/brllrb/uber-and-lyft-dataset-boston-ma?select=rideshare_kaggle.csv
